Creation New Extrinsics Page (#4016)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/learn/learn-extrinsics.md

  logic must account for protecting the network from these types of transactions being misused.
- Inherents exist to address the need of adding some data to a block, whereas signed or unsigned
  transactions exist to potentially change the state of the blockchain.

## Metadata Updates

:::warning Always check for Metadata Updates

Before signing extrinsics with the Polkadot-JS Browser Extension and Parity Signer, always check for
metadata updates. [This technical explainer video](https://youtu.be/gbvrHzr4EDY) will explain how to
do it.

:::

Parity Signer updates the full metadata through the QR fountain while the extension updates the
metadata index (the metadata is not loaded into it). As a consequence the process of updating
metadata is different (you will notice that on the Signer app the update takes longer for example).
Having outdated metadata on the Signer app will prevent you from signing while on the extension you
will be able to click the sign button but the extrinsic will likely fail similarly of having an
outdated Ledger app. In general, failing to update metadata will most likely result in you not being

> able to transfer funds.

Reviewer: Don't limit it to "transferring funds" (there are a couple of instances like this). Instead: "not being able to sign extrinsics".

:::

Verifying the extrinsic you are signing can take some more time before signing for a transaction but
it allows you to add an extra security step. There are a multitude of possible attacks that will
prevent you to send funds to the desired destination account (see below).

## How do Attacks look like

In general, an attacker would make you think you are signing an extrinsic A when you are signing an
extrinsic B. An Attack might come from:

### Clipboard Memory

:::info

For a more detailed read about clipboard memory attacks see
[this article](https://www.kaspersky.com/blog/cryptoshuffler-bitcoin-stealer/19976/).

:::

This is a common attack. The clipboard memory is that memory on you computer dedicated to copy-paste
operations. There is malicious software that can be remotely installed on your computer and that can
detect when a cryptocurrency address is copied. For example, you want to send funds to Address A
(belonging to you) but after copying address A a malicious software swaps that address with Address
B (belonging to an attacker). If you do not check the receiver address before signing the funds will
be lost.

> ### Corrupted Website

Reviewer: ### Malicious Website/dApp

This is a common attack that can happen if you are interacting with a malicious site (dApp). In this scenario you want to perform Extrinsic A on the website, but the dApp
 will send Extrinsic B to the extension for signing. In this case the extension will show Extrinsic
 B. If you are using a Ledger device you have a second layer of verification, as it will also display
 Extrinsic B.

This is a common attack that can happen if your extension is genuine, but the website (dApp) it is
connected with is corrupted. In this scenario you want to perform Extrinsic A on the website, which
will send Extrinsic B to the extension for signature. In this case the extension will show Extrinsic
B. If you are using a Ledger device you have a second layer of verification, is it will also display
Extrinsic B. In this case it is more difficult to spot the attack and it is up to the user to know
the extrinsic that was created on the website in the first place.

> ### Corrupted Browser Extension

Reviewer: ### Malicious browser extension

> There is a minor risk that the browser extension such as the

Reviewer: This scenario can happen if you have downloaded a malicious extension or a trusted extension, like the Polkadot-JS Browser extension, from a non-trusted source.

[Polkadot-JS Browser Extension](https://polkadot.js.org/extension/) is corrupted because it was
downloaded by non-trusted source. In this scenario the extension will display that you will sign for
an Extrinsic A but in the background will execute another extrinsic, Extrinsic B. If you are using a

> [Ledger](https://www.ledger.com/) device this attack can be detected because you will be able to see

Reviewer: If you are using a Ledger device or Parity Signer this attack...

Extrinsic B on the screen of your Ledger device.

### Corrupted metadata

This attack is least common and might result in signing a non-intended extrinsic without the
possibility of verifying it. Before authorizing the metadata update check who is requesting it.

> Metadata updates might be requested by the Polkadot-JS UI and dApps (for example DeFi apps of

Reviewer: Metadata updates for the Polkadot-JS Browser Extension (or other extensions) might be requested by the Polkadot-JS UI and dApps (for example DeFi apps of parachains). For the extensions, you should trust the app that requests the update. When updating the metadata for Parity Signer
 you should trust the issuer of the metadata (or generate the QR fountain yourself).

parachains). For the extension, you should trust the app that requests the update while for Signer
you should trust the issuer of the metadata (or do the update yourself).

> ### Corrupted QR-code (Parity Signer)

Reviewer: This is a sub-case of the malicious dApp scenario. If your account is on Signer the extrinsic will be displayed as a QR code, instead of the extension showing its details and you need to verify it on the device. Some extensions might also show the extrinsic details along with the QR code (don't know, haven't tried it).

---
id: learn-extrinsics
title: Extrinsics
sidebar_label: Extrinsics
description: Learn about Transaction Types (i.e. Extrinsics)
keywords: [transaction, DOT, extrinsics, KSM]
slug: ../learn-extrinsics
---

## Pallets and Extrinsics

{{ polkadot: Polkadot :polkadot }}{{ kusama: Kusama :kusama }} is built using
[substrate](https://substrate.io/), a modular system to efficiently build blockchains. Within each
module or **pallet**, one can **call** different functions that have similar logic. You can explore
substrate pallets on [this dedicated page](https://docs.substrate.io/reference/frame-pallets/). For
example, the staking pallet contains all functionalities related to staking such as bonding or

> unbonding funds. The combined information of pallets and calls constitutes an **extrinsic**, i.e. a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{ polkadot: Polkadot :polkadot }}{{ kusama: Kusama :kusama }} is built using
[Substrate](https://substrate.io/), a modular framework to efficiently build blockchains. Substrate's FRAME development environment provides modules called pallets and support libraries that you can use, modify, and extend to build the runtime logic to suit the needs of your blockchain. You can explore
Substrate's FRAME pallets on [this dedicated page](https://docs.substrate.io/reference/frame-pallets/). 

Within each functional **pallet** on the blockchain, one can **call** its functions and execute them successfully, provided they have the permission to do so. Because these calls originate outside of the blockchain runtime, such transactions are referred to as **extrinsics**. Extrinsics normally contain a signature, some data to describe if the extrinsic has passed some validity checks and a reference to the pallet and call that it is intended for. For example, the Staking pallet contains all functions related to staking.
```

> transaction that is executed from outside the chain but that triggers an event on the chain.
> Continuing with the staking example, within the staking pallet a nominator can bond funds and
> nominate some validators. The signature of such extrinsic might lead to an event on the chain such
> as a reward payout to that nominator at the end of an era; this is an event inside the chain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A nominator can bond funds and
nominate validators by issuing the respective extrinsics. Some extrinsics might also trigger an event on the chain such
as a reward payout to the nominators. 
```

## Extrinsics (a.k.a. Types of Transactions)

> Now that we introduced where the term _extrisic_ comes from, we can explain what extrinsics really

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that we introduced the term _extrinsic_, let us dive deeper and understand what extrinsics really
```

> are. In Substrate, a _"thing that could exist in the transaction pool"_ — more commonly known as "a
> transaction" in the non-Substrate world — can be one of 3 distinct types, all of which fall under a
> broader category called "extrinsics". Extrinsics is just a general term to mean "any information
> that originates from outside a runtime". These are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
are. Extrinsics can be one of 3 distinct types:
```

- **Signed transactions:** these must contain the signature of the account sending the inbound
  request to the runtime. With signed transactions, the account used to submit the request typically

>   pays a transaction fee and must sign it using the account's private key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  pays the transaction fee and must sign it using the account's private key.
```

(belonging to you) but after copying address A a malicious software swaps that address with Address
B (belonging to an attacker). If you do not check the receiver address before signing the funds will
be lost.

### Malicious Website/dApp

This is a common attack that can happen if you are interacting with a malicious site (dApp). In this
scenario you want to perform Extrinsic A on the website, but the dApp will send Extrinsic B to the
extension for signing. In this case the extension will show Extrinsic B. If you are using a Ledger
device you have a second layer of verification, as it will also display Extrinsic B.

### Malicious Browser Extension

This scenario can happen if you have downloaded a malicious extension or a trusted extension, like
the [Polkadot-JS Browser Extension](https://polkadot.js.org/extension/), from a non-trusted source.
In this scenario the extension will display that you will sign for an Extrinsic A but in the
background will execute Extrinsic B. If you are using a [Ledger](https://www.ledger.com/) device
this attack can be detected because you will be able to see Extrinsic B on the screen of your Ledger
device.

### Corrupted metadata

> If you are using a Ledger device or Parity Signer this attack is least common and might result in

Reviewer: > If you are using a Ledger device or Parity Signer

This isn't needed. As explained below, this can affect the extension or Signer. For Ledger it doesn't apply because Ledger does the update and you update the app (when there's a tx version update). Assuming you update through Ledger Live and Ledger/Zondax is legit, you are safe.

signing a non-intended extrinsic without the possibility of verifying it. Before authorizing the
metadata update check who is requesting it. Metadata updates for the Polkadot-JS Browser Extension
(or other extensions) might be requested by the Polkadot-JS UI and dApps (for example DeFi apps of
parachains). For the extensions, you should trust the app that requests the update. When updating
the metadata for Parity Signer you should trust the issuer of the metadata (or generate the QR
fountain yourself).

### Corrupted QR-code (Parity Signer)

This is a sub-case of the malicious dApp scenario. If your account is on
[Parity Signer](https://www.parity.io/technologies/signer/) the extrinsic will be displayed as a QR

> code, instead of the extension showing its details and you need to verify it on the device. There

Reviewer: > There an be the possibility of scanning a corrupted QR code. This can be either to sign for an extrinsic or to do a metadata update.

This isn't needed

---
id: learn-extrinsics
title: Extrinsics
sidebar_label: Extrinsics
description: Learn about Transaction Types (i.e. Extrinsics)
keywords: [transaction, DOT, extrinsics, KSM]
slug: ../learn-extrinsics
---

## Pallets and Extrinsics

{{ polkadot: Polkadot :polkadot }}{{ kusama: Kusama :kusama }} is built using
[substrate](https://substrate.io/), a modular system to efficiently build blockchains. Within each
module or **pallet**, one can **call** different functions that have similar logic. You can explore
substrate pallets on [this dedicated page](https://docs.substrate.io/reference/frame-pallets/). For
example, the staking pallet contains all functionalities related to staking such as bonding or

> unbonding funds. The combined information of pallets and calls constitutes an **extrinsic**, i.e. a

Reviewer: > The combined information of pallets and calls constitutes an **extrinsic**

Is this statement accurate?

Author: I believe so, isn't it true?

Reviewer: I don't quite understand this sentence tbh. An extrinsic is sth from the outside world that changes the chain state, most commonly known as a transaction, as described later on.

transaction that is executed from outside the chain but that triggers an event on the chain.
Continuing with the staking example, within the staking pallet a nominator can bond funds and
nominate some validators. The signature of such extrinsic might lead to an event on the chain such
as a reward payout to that nominator at the end of an era; this is an event inside the chain.

> ## Extrinsics (a.k.a. Types of Transactions)

Reviewer: Isn't this section basically a repetition of the corresponding section in the integration guide?

- **Unsigned transactions:** these don't carry any information about who submitted the transaction, since the format of this type of transaction doesn't require a signature. You can define what conditions must be met for such a transaction to be valid.
- **Inherents:** are a special type of unsigned transaction made by block authors which carry information required to build a block such as timestamps, storage proofs and uncle blocks.
 
Here are some key differences between the different types of extrinsics:

- Contrary to signed transactions, unsigned transaction types require implementing custom validation logic which can consume more resources for checking validity compared to signed transactions.
- Unsigned transactions have no economic deterrent to prevent spam or replay attacks, so custom logic must account for protecting the network from these types of transactions being misused.
- Inherents exist to address the need of adding some data to a block, whereas signed or unsigned transactions exist to potentially change the state of the blockchain.

## Importance of Verifying Extrinsics

:::info Walk-through Video Tutorial 

> Visit the [dedicated support page](https://support.polkadot.network/support/solutions/articles/65000179161-how-can-i-verify-what-extrinsic-i-m-signing-) and see [this technical explainer](https://youtu.be/bxMs-9fBtFk) tutorial to learn about how to verify extrinsics before signing them. The video will also mention potential attacks that can happen to you while signing for transactions. **Do not sign any transaction if you suspect you are or have been under attack.**

Reviewer: > **Do not sign any transaction if you suspect you are or have been under attack.**

I'd change that to "Do not sign a transaction if you can't verify what you are signing or you suspect you might be signing a different extrinsic than the one intended"

Author: Changed

:::

:::warning Always check for Metadata Updates

> Before signing extrinsics with the Polkadot-JS Browser Extension and Parity Signer, always check for metadata updates. [This technical explainer video](https://youtu.be/gbvrHzr4EDY) will explain how to do it. Failing to update metadata will result in errors while signing that for example will ultimately result in you not being able to transfer funds. Before authorizing the metadata update check who is requesting it. Any request not coming from the Polkadot-JS Apps must not be signed.

Reviewer: Metadata updates for Signer and the extension are two different things, of various reasons. 

- Signer gets the full metadata on the device through the QR fountain. The extension updates the metadata index; the metadata isn't loaded onto it (contrary to what I had told you in the past).
- The process of updating the metadata is quite different as a result
- Having outdated metadata on Signer will prevent you from signing. On the extension you'll probably be able to sign but the extrinsic might fail (never tried it though tbh).

So, I think this section needs a bit of rewriting.

Also, this:
> Any request not coming from the Polkadot-JS Apps must not be signed.

is not correct. dApps may request a metadata update too (for example DeFi apps of parachains). So, for the extension, you should trust the app that requests the update. For Signer, you should trust the issuer of the metadata (or do it yourself).

Author: Content corrected and updated.

:::

Verifying the extrinsic you are signing can take some more time before signing for a transaction but it allows you to add an extra security step. There are a multitude of possible attacks that will prevent you to send funds to the desired destination account. Here below we will list some major attacks that can happen to you ordered from the most to the least probable.

### Clipboard Memory Attack

:::info

For a more detailed read about clipboard memory attacks see [this article](https://www.kaspersky.com/blog/cryptoshuffler-bitcoin-stealer/19976/).

:::

> The clipboard memory is that memory on you computer dedicated to copy-paste operations. There is malicious software that can be remotely installed on your computer and that is able to detect when a cryptocurrency address is copied. Let's say you want to send funds to Address A (belonging to you), after copying address A the software swaps that address with Address B (belonging to the attacker). If you do not check the receiver address before signing the funds will be lost. 

Reviewer: True, but that can be prevented even before signing, simply by double-checking the address after you paste it.

Also, the syntax needs some attention at places.

### Corrupted Website

> An attack can still happen if your extension is genuine, but the website (dApp) it is connected with is corrupted. In this scenario you want to perform Extrinsic A on the website, which will send Extrinsic B to the extension for signature. If you are using a Ledger device, it will display Extrinsic B. In this case it is more difficult to spot the attack and it is up to the user to know the extrinsic that was created on the website in the first place.

Reviewer: > An attack can still happen if your extension is genuine

This implies that we've covered a scenario where the extension is not genuine.

Also, no reason to limit this to Ledger. If the extension is legit, it will show also extrinsic B in any case. If you are using a Ledger you have a second layer of verification.

### Corrupted QR-code (Parity Signer)

> If you are using [Parity Signer](https://www.parity.io/technologies/signer/), there might be the risk of scanning corrupted QR codes to sign for transactions or to update matadata. In this scenario the Signer App will display Extrinsic B when you want to sign for Extrinsic A.

Reviewer: These are two different scenarios. If the metadata is correct, when you scan a QR to sign an extrinsic you'll see the real extrinsic info and can verify if it's the intended one. If the metadata is incorrect (or the singer you've installed is corrupted), then you run the risk of signing sth you didn't intend with no way to verify it.

### Corrupted Polkadot-JS Browser Extension

> There a minor risk that the [Polkadot-JS Browser Extension](https://polkadot.js.org/extension/) is corrupted because it was downloaded by non-trusted source. In this scenario the extension will display that you will sign for an Extrinsic A but in the background will execute another extrinsic, Extrinsic B. If you are using a [Ledger](https://www.ledger.com/) device this attack can be detected because you will be able to see Extrinsic B on the screen of you Ledger Nano.

Reviewer: > There

There's

> of you Ledger Nano

of your Ledger device
